Hello, every month I analyze publicly available data from papers that I like.
This month’s paper is: “Efferocytosis reprograms the tumor microenvironment to promote pancreatic cancer liver metastasis” (Astuti et al., 2024).  
## Introduction 
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is associated with extremely poor survival rates and has long been considered one of the most treatment-resistant malignancies; only recently has the promising work of Dr. Mariano Barbacid (Liaki et al., 2025) begun to suggest more effective therapeutic strategies. The majority of the newly diagnosed PDAC patients are presented with non-resectable metastatic malignancy. In addition, those who undergo surgery to remove the primary tumor have 70% risk of relapsing within two years of the surgery.  The liver is the most common metastatic site for PDAC. 
Efferocytosis is the process of recognizing and engulfing apoptotic cells via specialized phagocytes, most commonly macrophages (Astuti et al., 2024). Previous reports indicate an increase in macrophage population in PDAC metastasis (Nielsen et al., 2016). 
The innovation of this study is the identification and characterization of the efferocytosis role in programming macrophages towards an immunosuppressive phenotype. Inhibiting the process of efferocytosis reversed immune suppression and impaired metastatic growth. 

## Study Design 
For scRNA-seq, a metastatic PDAC model was induced by injecting PDAC tumor cells derived from the KPC mouse model via portal injection into orthotopic PDAC-bearing mice. In situ antibody labeling was performed using a retrograde perfusion of the liver with 10 µg FITC-conjugated F4/80 antibody to recognize spatially different metastasis-associated macrophages (MAMs) in advanced metastasis. This labeling method took advantage of the fibrotic nature of these metastatic lesions; as proximal MAMs (pMAM) will not be stained due to poor vasculirization. MAMs were isolated using flow cytometry, and a total of four conditions were compared: healthy livers, early metastasis, advanced proximal metastasis, and advanced distal metastasis.
## Method 
I loaded the samples into R using Seurat (Version 5). Cells expressing fewer than 200 genes, and more than 6000 genes were filtered out. Cells expressing more than 10% mitochondrial gene expression were suspected to be dead cells, and were also filtered out. In contrast with the original study, I did not use the ribosomal gene expression as a quality control metric. Data were further filtered to include cells that express macrophage markers Cd68 and Adgre1. 

I ended up with 9167 cells, divided into four groups: advanced distal (2781), advanced proximal (1952), early (2007), and naive (2427). The following steps: data normalization, scaling, dimensionality reduction, and clustering, followed the exact steps mentioned in the reference study. 
